README.md, before:

# Head First: Design Patterns

## Object Oriented Programming Principles

### 1. Abstraction

**Definition**: Abstraction is the concept of hiding the complex implementation details and showing only the essential features of an object.

```python
class Car:
    def start(self):
        print("Started!")

    def stop(self):
        print("Stopped!")

    def __reset_pistons__(self):
        print("Abstraction of how Pistons work.")
```

### 2. Encapsulation

**Definition**: Encapsulation is the concept of bundling data (attributes) and methods (functions) that operate on the data into a single unit, typically a class, and restricting access to some of the object's components.

```python
class Car:
    def start(self):
        print("Started!")

    def stop(self):
        print("Stopped!")

    def speedometer(self):
        print("My Speed Is, 120KM/H!")
```

### 3. Polymorphism

**Definition**: Polymorphism allows objects of different classes to be treated as objects of a common superclass. It provides a way to use a single interface to represent different underlying forms (data types).

```python
from abc import ABC, abstractmethod

class ICar(ABC):
    @abstractmethod
    def display(self):
        pass

class Audi(ICar):
    def display(self):
        print("This is an Audi!")

class BMW(ICar):
    def display(self):
        print("This is a BMW!")

bmw = BMW()
bmw.display()  # Output: This is a BMW!

audi = Audi()
audi.display()  # Output: This is an Audi!
```

### 4. Inheritance

**Definition**: Inheritance is the mechanism by which one class (child or subclass) inherits the attributes and methods from another class (parent or superclass).

```python
class Vehicle:
    def speedometer(self):
        print("My Speed Right Now!")

class Audi(Vehicle):
    def drive(self):
        print("Vroom Vroom")

audi = Audi()
audi.speedometer()  # Output: My Speed Right Now!
audi.drive()        # Output: Vroom Vroom
```

## Design Principles

1. Separate things that change or vary from those that stay the same.
2. Program to an Interface, not an Implementation.
3. Favour Composition over Inheritance.
4. Strive for loosely coupled designs for objects that interact.
5. Classes should be open for extension, but closed for modification.
6. Dependency Inversion Principle: Depend upon abstractions. Not upon concrete implementations.

## Design Patterns

### 1. Strategy Pattern - Payment Processing System

**Example**: Payment Processing System. This system can support multiple payment methods such as _credit card_, _PayPal_, and _cryptocurrency_. Each payment method is a strategy that can be selected at runtime.

### 2. Observer Pattern - Weather Monitoring System

**Example**: Weather Monitoring System. This system supports notifying multiple weather displays, such as _Current Conditions_, _Weather Statistics_, and _Simple Forecasts_, of any change in weather conditions. Each weather display subscribes to a Central Weather Data Object, which is then responsible for pushing data to the displays at runtime.

### 3. Decorator Pattern - Coffee Shop

Example: A coffee shop can offer a variety of coffee drinks, such as _Espresso_, _Latte_, and _Cappuccino_. Additional **toppings** and **flavors**, like _milk_, _sugar_, and _syrup_, can be added dynamically to create different variations of coffee. The Decorator pattern allows you to combine base coffee drinks with various toppings and flavors to create customized products.

### 4. Factory Pattern - Pizza Shop

Example: A Pizza Shop offers various types of pizzas, such as _Pepperoni_, _Margherita_, and _Hawaiian_. Each pizza has its own specific ingredients and preparation method. The Factory Pattern provides a way to create different pizza objects without exposing their creation logic.

### 5. Singleton Pattern - Logging System

In a logging system, it's often desirable to have only one instance of a logger class to ensure consistent logging behavior across the application. The Singleton Pattern guarantees that there's only one instance of the logger, preventing potential conflicts and ensuring that all log messages are handled in the same way.

### 6. Command Pattern - Home Automation System

In a home automation system, users interact with various devices (e.g., _lights_, _thermostats_ and _TVs_) through different interfaces (e.g., mobile app, voice control). Managing these interactions can become complex and error-prone. The Command Pattern decouples the object that invokes a request (the invoker) from the one that knows how to perform it (the receiver).

### 7. Adapter Pattern - Home Automation System

In a home automation system, devices often have incompatible interfaces. The Adapter Pattern allows these devices to work together by translating requests from the system into commands understood by the specific device. This promotes flexibility and reusability, enabling the system to integrate various devices without modifying their core functionality.

### 8. Facade Pattern - Home Theater System

In a home theater system, controlling multiple devices (e.g., _amplifier_, _projector_, _lights_) can be complex. The Facade Pattern simplifies this by providing a unified interface to control the system. This allows users to manage the system with a single command, such as "Watch Movie," without needing to know the intricate details of each device's configuration.

Commit message:

Template, Composite and Iterator Patterns Added

README.md, after:

# Head First: Design Patterns

## Object Oriented Programming Principles

### 1. Abstraction

**Definition**: Abstraction is the concept of hiding the complex implementation details and showing only the essential features of an object.

```python
class Car:
    def start(self):
        print("Started!")

    def stop(self):
        print("Stopped!")

    def __reset_pistons__(self):
        print("Abstraction of how Pistons work.")
```

### 2. Encapsulation

**Definition**: Encapsulation is the concept of bundling data (attributes) and methods (functions) that operate on the data into a single unit, typically a class, and restricting access to some of the object's components.

```python
class Car:
    def start(self):
        print("Started!")

    def stop(self):
        print("Stopped!")

    def speedometer(self):
        print("My Speed Is, 120KM/H!")
```

### 3. Polymorphism

**Definition**: Polymorphism allows objects of different classes to be treated as objects of a common superclass. It provides a way to use a single interface to represent different underlying forms (data types).

```python
from abc import ABC, abstractmethod

class ICar(ABC):
    @abstractmethod
    def display(self):
        pass

class Audi(ICar):
    def display(self):
        print("This is an Audi!")

class BMW(ICar):
    def display(self):
        print("This is a BMW!")

bmw = BMW()
bmw.display()  # Output: This is a BMW!

audi = Audi()
audi.display()  # Output: This is an Audi!
```

### 4. Inheritance

**Definition**: Inheritance is the mechanism by which one class (child or subclass) inherits the attributes and methods from another class (parent or superclass).

```python
class Vehicle:
    def speedometer(self):
        print("My Speed Right Now!")

class Audi(Vehicle):
    def drive(self):
        print("Vroom Vroom")

audi = Audi()
audi.speedometer()  # Output: My Speed Right Now!
audi.drive()        # Output: Vroom Vroom
```

## Design Principles

1. Separate things that change or vary from those that stay the same.
2. Program to an Interface, not an Implementation.
3. Favour Composition over Inheritance.
4. Strive for loosely coupled designs for objects that interact.
5. Classes should be open for extension, but closed for modification.
6. Dependency Inversion Principle: Depend upon abstractions. Not upon concrete implementations.
7. Least Knowledge: Talk only to your immediate friends.
8. Hollywood Principle: Don't call us, we will call you.
9. A class should only one reason to change. Single responsibility.

## Design Patterns

### 1. Strategy Pattern - Payment Processing System

**Example**: Payment Processing System. This system can support multiple payment methods such as _credit card_, _PayPal_, and _cryptocurrency_. Each payment method is a strategy that can be selected at runtime.

### 2. Observer Pattern - Weather Monitoring System

**Example**: Weather Monitoring System. This system supports notifying multiple weather displays, such as _Current Conditions_, _Weather Statistics_, and _Simple Forecasts_, of any change in weather conditions. Each weather display subscribes to a Central Weather Data Object, which is then responsible for pushing data to the displays at runtime.

### 3. Decorator Pattern - Coffee Shop

Example: A coffee shop can offer a variety of coffee drinks, such as _Espresso_, _Latte_, and _Cappuccino_. Additional **toppings** and **flavors**, like _milk_, _sugar_, and _syrup_, can be added dynamically to create different variations of coffee. The Decorator pattern allows you to combine base coffee drinks with various toppings and flavors to create customized products.

### 4. Factory Pattern - Pizza Shop

Example: A Pizza Shop offers various types of pizzas, such as _Pepperoni_, _Margherita_, and _Hawaiian_. Each pizza has its own specific ingredients and preparation method. The Factory Pattern provides a way to create different pizza objects without exposing their creation logic.

### 5. Singleton Pattern - Logging System

In a logging system, it's often desirable to have only one instance of a logger class to ensure consistent logging behavior across the application. The Singleton Pattern guarantees that there's only one instance of the logger, preventing potential conflicts and ensuring that all log messages are handled in the same way.

### 6. Command Pattern - Home Automation System

In a home automation system, users interact with various devices (e.g., _lights_, _thermostats_ and _TVs_) through different interfaces (e.g., mobile app, voice control). Managing these interactions can become complex and error-prone. The Command Pattern decouples the object that invokes a request (the invoker) from the one that knows how to perform it (the receiver).

### 7. Adapter Pattern - Home Automation System

In a home automation system, devices often have incompatible interfaces. The Adapter Pattern allows these devices to work together by translating requests from the system into commands understood by the specific device. This promotes flexibility and reusability, enabling the system to integrate various devices without modifying their core functionality.

### 9. Template Method Pattern - Coffee Shop

In a coffee shop, the process of making a cup of coffee is a well-defined sequence of steps, such as grinding beans, boiling water, and brewing. The Template Method Pattern allows the coffee shop to define the overall structure of this process, while individual steps (like the specific brewing method) can be customized for different coffee types (e.g., espresso, drip coffee). This provides a flexible framework for preparing a variety of coffee drinks, ensuring consistency while accommodating specific variations.

### 10. Iterator Pattern - Diverse Menu Shop

In a shop offering diverse menus for breakfast, lunch, and dinner, the Iterator Pattern provides a way to sequentially access items from each menu without exposing the underlying data structure. This allows the shop to manage different menu items efficiently and iterate over them using a unified interface. The iterator can be used to display menus, process orders, or perform other menu-related tasks, promoting a flexible and maintainable menu management system.

### 11. Composite Pattern - Flexible GUI Component Structure

In a complex GUI system, the Composite Pattern allows us to treat individual components and groups of components uniformly. This enables the creation of hierarchical structures, where components can contain other components, forming a tree-like structure. By using the Composite Pattern, we can simplify the traversal and manipulation of these hierarchical structures. This pattern is essential for building flexible and scalable GUI systems that can handle complex layouts and interactions.
